docs/conceptual/sequence.md, before:

# 🧩 **JH Toolkit — `jh::concepts::sequence` API Reference**

📁 **Header:** `<jh/conceptual/sequence.h>`  
📦 **Namespace:** `jh::concepts`  
📅 **Version:** 1.3.x → 1.4.0-dev (2025)  
👤 **Author:** JeongHan-Bae `<mastropseudo@gmail.com>`

<div align="right">

[![Back to README](https://img.shields.io/badge/%20Back%20to%20README-blue?style=flat-square)](../../README.md)
[![Back to Module](https://img.shields.io/badge/%20Back%20to%20Module-green?style=flat-square)](overview.md)

</div>

---

### 🧭 Submodule Notice

* `jh::concepts::sequence` is a **behavioral submodule** under `jh::concepts`,
  providing **duck-typed sequence recognition** for any object that can be traversed via `begin()` / `end()`.
* It defines the canonical behavioral model leveraged by `jh::ranges` and `jh::views`
  for transparent and automatic range adaptation.

---

## 🧩 Introduction

This header defines the **semantic concept of a "sequence"** within the JH Toolkit —
a type that can be traversed through `begin()` and `end()` in a stable, repeatable manner,
without assuming it must behave like a full `std::ranges::range`.

Unlike the standard `range` concept,  
`jh::concepts::sequence` models the *everyday programming notion* of "something iterable".
It focuses on the **behavior of traversal**, not the presence of formal range traits.

This concept treats any object that supports consistent iteration as a sequence —
STL containers, raw arrays, pointers, or custom types —
and normalizes them into a range-compatible form through
[`jh::ranges::range_wrapper`](../ranges/range_wrapper.md).

The const-qualified check ensures that `begin()` and `end()` are callable on a `const T&`,
meaning iteration itself does not consume or mutate the underlying object,
while still allowing writable access through iterators when appropriate.

---

## 🔹 Core Concepts

### `sequence<T>`

Defines what it means for a type to behave like a *sequence* —
a structure that can be traversed predictably and repeatedly using `begin()` and `end()`.

Requires:

* `std::begin(t)` and `std::end(t)` valid for `const T&`;
* returned iterators satisfy `jh::concepts::input_iterator`;
* `{ std::begin(t) == std::end(t) }` and `{ std::begin(t) != std::end(t) }`
  are valid and convertible to `bool`.

This concept ensures traversal stability without requiring the object
to implement full range semantics or rvalue-based iteration.
Sequences are typically *lvalue-bound* — persistent containers or views that
can be iterated multiple times without consuming state.

The const-qualified validation simply guarantees that
`begin()` and `end()` can be invoked safely on const objects,
signifying non-destructive iteration.
Writable iterators remain allowed as long as iteration itself
does not break traversal consistency.

`jh::concepts::sequence` thus captures the **programmer's intuitive definition**
of a sequence — "something you can iterate over and expect consistent results" —
serving as the foundation for toolkit-wide iteration behavior.

---

### `sequence_value_t<T>`

Deduces the element type of a sequence.  
Requires:

* `iterator_t<T>` must be deducible via the iterator resolution chain;
* the deduced iterator must provide a valid `iterator_value_t<I>`.

Removes `cv` and reference qualifiers, unifying value deduction
for both STL-style and duck-typed containers.

---

### `is_sequence<T>`

Compile-time boolean trait testing whether a type satisfies `sequence<T>`.  
Requires:

* `sequence<T>` must be satisfied.

Provides a `constexpr bool` shorthand for SFINAE or static assertions.

---

### `jh::to_range(seq)`

Transforms any valid sequence into a `std::ranges::range`-compatible object.
Requires:

* The input type satisfies `jh::concepts::sequence`.

Behavior:

* If the input already models `std::ranges::range`:

    * returns it directly if movable or copyable;
    * otherwise wraps it with `std::ranges::subrange` for const-lvalue access.
* If the input does *not* model `std::ranges::range`:

    * wraps lvalues using `jh::ranges::range_wrapper<Seq&>`;
    * wraps rvalues or values using `jh::ranges::range_wrapper<Seq>`.

The resulting object is always **movable and forwardable**, even when the original sequence is not.
Some STL range algorithms perform overly strict move/copy checks —
**even when the algorithm itself never actually moves or copies the range**.
`jh::to_range()` guarantees such checks will pass by producing a proxy object that
behaves as a movable `std::ranges::range` through `range_wrapper` or `subrange`.

This adaptation is **idempotent for all valid inputs**, following four deterministic paths:

1. **`std::ranges::range` + movable/copyable** → returned directly (transparent pass-through).
2. **`std::ranges::range` + not movable/copyable** → wrapped by `std::ranges::subrange`.
3. **`sequence` lvalue** → wrapped by `jh::ranges::range_wrapper<Seq&>`.
4. **`sequence` rvalue/value** → wrapped by `jh::ranges::range_wrapper<Seq>`.

The outputs of cases 2–4 all satisfy case 1,
so any subsequent call to `jh::to_range()` simply forwards the object unchanged.
This is why the operation is *natively idempotent*—
once an object has been adapted, further adaptation is a no-op.

See [`range_wrapper`](../ranges/range_wrapper.md) for implementation details.

---

### `sequence_difference_t<T>`

Behavioral equivalent of `std::ranges::range_difference_t`.  
Requires:

* `T` satisfies `jh::concepts::sequence`.

Deduces the **difference type** of the adapted range returned by `jh::to_range(T)`.
Unlike `iterator_difference_t<I>`, which may yield `void` for non-arithmetic iterators,
`sequence_difference_t<T>` is **always valid and non-void** —
`to_range()` guarantees a proper `std::ranges::range`,
defaulting to `std::ptrdiff_t` when the underlying type does not define its own difference type.

---

## 🧩 Summary

- `jh::concepts::sequence` defines the **behavioral recognition layer**
for objects that can be traversed consistently, without imposing strict STL `range` semantics.

- It formalizes the programmer's intuitive sense of "iterable" types,
and acts as the semantic foundation for `jh::to_range()`,
`jh::ranges::range_wrapper`, and `jh::views` throughout the toolkit.

## 📦 **Forwarding Header — `jh/sequence` (1.3.x only)**

Backward-compatible entry maintained through **1.3.x**.  
It re-exports `jh::concepts::sequence` and related utilities to the root namespace,
but **does not affect** `jh::to_range`, which is a common infrastructure utility
used across multiple modules (e.g. `sequence`, `generator`).

```cpp
#pragma once
#include "jh/conceptual/sequence.h"

namespace jh {
    using namespace jh::concepts;
}
```

This header will also be **removed in 1.4.0**.  
Use `jh::concepts::sequence` directly, and keep `jh::to_range`
as a shared top-level function.

Commit message:

docs(ci): add documentation presence check and align range_adaptor docs
The 1.4.0-dev development cycle is approaching its final stage. At this point,
the focus has shifted to documentation alignment: Doxygen coverage is largely
complete, and remaining work concentrates on ensuring consistency and presence
of files under docs/.

This change does not introduce large-scale documentation rewrites. Instead, it
updates the documentation related to range_wrapper (now renamed to
range_adaptor) to reflect the new naming and to clarify semantics.

Additionally, a new GitHub Actions workflow is introduced to automatically
detect missing documentation files. During rapid iteration, missing
documentation is considered more critical than outdated content, and this
workflow helps enforce baseline documentation presence.

docs/conceptual/sequence.md, after:

# 🧩 **JH Toolkit — `jh::concepts::sequence` API Reference**

📁 **Header:** `<jh/conceptual/sequence.h>`  
📦 **Namespace:** `jh::concepts`  
📅 **Version:** 1.3.x → 1.4.0-dev (2025)  
👤 **Author:** JeongHan-Bae `<mastropseudo@gmail.com>`

<div align="right">

[![Back to README](https://img.shields.io/badge/%20Back%20to%20README-blue?style=flat-square)](../../README.md)
[![Back to Module](https://img.shields.io/badge/%20Back%20to%20Module-green?style=flat-square)](overview.md)

</div>

---

### 🧭 Submodule Notice

* `jh::concepts::sequence` is a **behavioral submodule** under `jh::concepts`,
  providing **duck-typed sequence recognition** for any object that can be traversed via `begin()` / `end()`.
* It defines the canonical behavioral model leveraged by `jh::ranges` and `jh::views`
  for transparent and automatic range adaptation.

---

## 🧩 Introduction

This header defines the **semantic concept of a "sequence"** within the JH Toolkit —
a type that can be traversed through `begin()` and `end()` in a stable, repeatable manner,
without assuming it must behave like a full `std::ranges::range`.

This is a form of tolerance for third-party or user-defined containers. 
As long as you appear to be a container that permits non-exhaustive traversal, we can promote you to a `range`.

Unlike the standard `range` concept,  
`jh::concepts::sequence` models the *everyday programming notion* of "something iterable".
It focuses on the **behavior of traversal**, not the presence of formal range traits.

This concept treats any object that supports consistent iteration as a sequence —
STL containers, raw arrays, pointers, or custom types —
and normalizes them into a range-compatible form through
[`jh::ranges::range_adaptor`](../ranges/range_adaptor.md).

The const-qualified check ensures that `begin()` and `end()` are callable on a `const T&`,
meaning iteration itself does not consume or mutate the underlying object,
while still allowing writable access through iterators when appropriate.

---

## 🔹 Core Concepts

### `sequence<T>`

Defines what it means for a type to behave like a *sequence* —
a structure that can be traversed predictably and repeatedly using `begin()` and `end()`.

Requires:

* `std::begin(t)` and `std::end(t)` valid for `const T&`;
* returned iterators satisfy `jh::concepts::input_iterator`;
* `{ std::begin(t) == std::end(t) }` and `{ std::begin(t) != std::end(t) }`
  are valid and convertible to `bool`.

This concept ensures traversal stability without requiring the object
to implement full range semantics or rvalue-based iteration.
Sequences are typically *lvalue-bound* — persistent containers or views that
can be iterated multiple times without consuming state.

The const-qualified validation simply guarantees that
`begin()` and `end()` can be invoked safely on const objects,
signifying non-destructive iteration.
Writable iterators remain allowed as long as iteration itself
does not break traversal consistency.

`jh::concepts::sequence` thus captures the **programmer's intuitive definition**
of a sequence — "something you can iterate over and expect consistent results" —
serving as the foundation for toolkit-wide iteration behavior.

---

### `sequence_value_t<T>`

Deduces the element type of a sequence.  
Requires:

* `iterator_t<T>` must be deducible via the iterator resolution chain;
* the deduced iterator must provide a valid `iterator_value_t<I>`.

Removes `cv` and reference qualifiers, unifying value deduction
for both STL-style and duck-typed containers.

---

### `is_sequence<T>`

Compile-time boolean trait testing whether a type satisfies `sequence<T>`.  
Requires:

* `sequence<T>` must be satisfied.

Provides a `constexpr bool` shorthand for SFINAE or static assertions.

---

### `jh::to_range(seq)`

Transforms any valid sequence into a `std::ranges::range`-compatible object.
Requires:

* The input type satisfies `jh::concepts::sequence`.

Behavior:

* If the input already models `std::ranges::range`:

    * returns it directly if movable or copyable;
    * otherwise wraps it with `std::ranges::subrange` for const-lvalue access.
* If the input does *not* model `std::ranges::range`:

    * wraps lvalues using `jh::ranges::range_adaptor<Seq&>`;
    * wraps rvalues or values using `jh::ranges::range_adaptor<Seq>`.

The resulting object is always **movable and forwardable**, even when the original sequence is not.
Some STL range algorithms perform overly strict move/copy checks —
**even when the algorithm itself never actually moves or copies the range**.
`jh::to_range()` guarantees such checks will pass by producing a proxy object that
behaves as a movable `std::ranges::range` through `range_adaptor` or `subrange`.

This adaptation is **idempotent for all valid inputs**, following four deterministic paths:

1. **`std::ranges::range` + movable/copyable** → returned directly (transparent pass-through).
2. **`std::ranges::range` + not movable/copyable** → wrapped by `std::ranges::subrange`.
3. **`sequence` lvalue** → wrapped by `jh::ranges::range_adaptor<Seq&>`.
4. **`sequence` rvalue/value** → wrapped by `jh::ranges::range_adaptor<Seq>`.

The outputs of cases 2–4 all satisfy case 1,
so any subsequent call to `jh::to_range()` simply forwards the object unchanged.
This is why the operation is *natively idempotent*—
once an object has been adapted, further adaptation is a no-op.

In practice, this requires that the input must satisfy `jh::concepts::sequence`, 
meaning it must be iterable and iteration itself must not consume the container.
This guarantees that the output must be a `std::ranges::range`. 
If the input is a lvalue, the output must be compatible with `std::views::all`.

See [`range_adaptor`](../ranges/range_adaptor.md) for implementation details.

---

### `sequence_difference_t<T>`

Behavioral equivalent of `std::ranges::range_difference_t`.  
Requires:

* `T` satisfies `jh::concepts::sequence`.

Deduces the **difference type** of the adapted range returned by `jh::to_range(T)`.
Unlike `iterator_difference_t<I>`, which may yield `void` for non-arithmetic iterators,
`sequence_difference_t<T>` is **always valid and non-void** —
`to_range()` guarantees a proper `std::ranges::range`,
defaulting to `std::ptrdiff_t` when the underlying type does not define its own difference type.

---

## 🧩 Summary

- `jh::concepts::sequence` defines the **behavioral recognition layer**
for objects that can be traversed consistently, without imposing strict STL `range` semantics.

- It formalizes the programmer's intuitive sense of "iterable" types,
and acts as the semantic foundation for `jh::to_range()`,
`jh::ranges::range_adaptor`, and `jh::views` throughout the toolkit.

## 📦 **Forwarding Header — `jh/sequence` (1.3.x only)**

Backward-compatible entry maintained through **1.3.x**.  
It re-exports `jh::concepts::sequence` and related utilities to the root namespace,
but **does not affect** `jh::to_range`, which is a common infrastructure utility
used across multiple modules (e.g. `sequence`, `generator`).

```cpp
#pragma once
#include "jh/conceptual/sequence.h"

namespace jh {
    using namespace jh::concepts;
}
```

This header will also be **removed in 1.4.0**.  
Use `jh::concepts::sequence` directly, and keep `jh::to_range`
as a shared top-level function.
